This is Jockel Podcast number one-to-wait with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, I go.
Good evening.
Goodbye.
You do not get to say goodbye.
That is the way it goes in this line of work.
One day your friend is there, your brother, your shared experiences and shared pain and shared
thoughts. One day your friend is there to share those things and then they're gone.
Of course we think we are all going to live forever.
And then by the bullet or the bomb or the ocean or the sky they are gone.
The memories are there, but they are not enough.
They are not enough because the story was not complete.
There was more.
There was so much more and now there is not.
And there cannot be.
And I did not say goodbye.
Not once.
I did not get to tell you the things I should have told you.
I did not say the words.
Not even a thank you.
But you knew because as I knew you knew and that is good.
And I am thankful.
But we did not finish the story.
The story was not yet complete.
So now I finish it alone.
I will do my best.
But the story will fall short without you in it.
But I will.
I will do my best.
Thank you.
And goodbye.
And I wrote down those words thinking about a question that I got asked.
The question was as an operator I know you lost many brothers.
I lost my wife to cancer.
My question is how do you deal with the inevitable flashbacks and the toughest moments?
For me it would be the hospital visits, emergency ambulance rides or the moment of passing which I was at her side for.
I struggle a bit as those memories continue to rise to the surface.
Thank you for any advice you can offer.
And my advice was yes.
This does happen.
You will have flashbacks of those tough moments.
And you will lose control sometimes.
And you will break down and that is the way it is and that is the way it will be.
And as you process the loss and you adapt to this new reality,
the breakdowns will become less frequent.
And you will learn somewhat to control them.
But they won't go away completely.
Ever.
And that is okay.
Because they will be a reminder of what you do have.
Life.
So live it.
And that is one of the hardest things for the losses that are suffered in my old profession.
There was never any kind of goodbye.
At least not a spoken one.
Because even though it wasn't spoken underneath it was there, we lived it.
We said goodbye every day and how we lived and how we trusted.
And how we gave.
And we were all together.
So to all of you out there that have lost one of your comrades and arms,
even though you might not have gotten to say goodbye,
even though you may not have told them what they meant to you.
Don't worry.
They knew.
But you know.
But it's going to be okay.
So like I said, that was a question I got.
And just wanted to offer some perspective that I unfortunately do have.
But speaking of questions echo, it's Q&A day.
Sure.
And I know we got some a few questions.
A few more questions here to go through.
Yeah.
Let's hit it.
All right.
We'll do.
First question.
I'm a young officer.
Platoon commander.
I deployed late.
But the time I arrived on deployment, there had been some problems.
And my company commander had been sent back to the states.
And the company first sergeant had been redeployed to another country.
Now there's a new company commander and new first sergeant.
They're treating all the soldiers in my platoon and in the entire company as if we are all messed up.
I don't like their attitude.
And my gut tells me they're out to make themselves look good by crucifying more people in the platoons.
I want to take care of my soldiers.
How do I best stand up to the new leadership?
All right.
So I would say the best way that you can take care of your soldiers is not to stand up to the new leadership.
But instead to build a relationship with the new leadership.
You know, if you confront them, you confront the new leadership that's taken over.
Automatically they're going to see you as the enemy, right?
They're going to see whoever got sent home for whatever reason.
Maybe there was some kind of a problem.
Maybe there was, yeah, there's definitely some kind of a problem.
Someone got in trouble.
Something happened to bad.
That's why guys are getting sent out of country or back to the states.
If you confront the new leadership, that means you're on the bad guy's side.
That's not where you want to be.
Because if you're on the bad side, if you're on the bad list, then they're not going to listen to you.
They're not going to trust you.
And they're going to be suspect of you and of your soldiers.
So, so that is not confrontation in this is not going to be helpful.
What you want to do is, if you can build a relationship with them,
if you can try and understand their perspective,
which is important.
Because they don't know, you get, you get put into a position where you're taking over for a quote unquote bad boss,
or a bad poutine or a bad company.
You don't know what the specific problems are.
So, you're pretty suspect on everything.
And you kind of have to be.
So, that's their perspective.
They're perspective is like, yeah, we don't know what's going on in here.
Well, we know it's something bad happened.
They fired the last company commander.
They fired the last company first sergeant.
Something bad happened here.
I don't know what it is, but I'm not going to let it happen to me.
So, I'm suspecting everything.
So, so to understand that perspective.
And then listen what they're saying.
Try and give them some kind of support.
Right?
Try and gain their trust.
So, that way they will listen to you.
And they will start to believe you.
And then you will be in a position where you can actually protect the soldiers.
Right?
If you get fired, you're not protecting your soldiers.
If you go, oh, I'm going to stand up for you guys.
Don't worry about it.
You go and hey, you guys, you treat my soldiers bad.
Oh, really? You're fired.
Now, we're taking care of your soldiers.
So, be careful with that now.
You could be also be right.
And these guys could be really, really bad.
They could be out for themselves.
I'll to make themselves look good.
And if that is the case.
Well, it still remains that the best possible thing you can do for your soldiers
is to develop a relationship with these guys.
And make sure that as they're trying to make themselves look good,
you protect your soldiers as much as you can.
And if they end up being good guys, right?
That we're just like I said, just had a coming into a bad situation.
Well, then you've got an opportunity, then you've
former relationship with them.
And as you get through that, then you, on their good side,
you're good to go that way as well.
Now, this is where people get a little freaked out, right?
Because because I'm sitting here and I'm saying you got to play the game,
right?
People think I'm saying, hey, like you need to brown those.
Yeah, yeah, be fake.
Be fake.
Hey, here's the deal.
I'm not talking about that.
I'm not talking about brown nosing.
I'm talking about being professional.
I'm talking about being respectful.
I'm talking about being humble.
That's what I'm talking about.
I'm talking about understanding their perspective.
I'm not talking about brown nosing.
I'm talking about those things.
That's not how you build relationships.
And by the way, you don't build relationships through brown nosing either.
If you just try and brown those people, they don't respect you.
That does, that's not how you build relationships.
You don't build relationships through brown nosing.
All you do is submit.
You don't build anything.
You're just, you're just on the receive side.
But if you're respectful and you're humble and you're professional,
that's how you build relationships.
And the better relationships you have up the chain of command,
the better you can take care of the people below you and the chain of command.
That's the way it works.
Of course, this doesn't mean you're okay if your superiors are doing something.
That's illegal, immoral, or unethical, or, or if they're putting your troops or the mission in danger.
Right?
We're not playing the game.
Now, you might still even then have to play the game.
If you were my boss echo and you were like, hey, I want you to send your guys to run.
Attack that bunker on the elevated position right there.
Enemy bunker with a machine, multiple machine guns in it.
With inner locking fields of fire.
And I'm like, we're not doing that's the dumbest thing I've ever heard.
Now, if I tell you, I will not do it.
And you say, okay, fine, you're fired.
You come here.
You take the platoon and go attacking.
Now that guy does, they all get killed.
Maybe what I should've done was like, hey, echo, we shouldn't do that.
It's not a good plan.
And you go, no, you do it anyways.
I go, hey, that's not a good plan.
And you say, go do it or I'm going to fire you.
Okay, I'll go, I'll go do it.
And now when you do it, you go out and you flank.
You do something different.
You know what I mean?
You make something happen.
You mitigate the damage as much as possible.
So that's a decision you're going to have to make.
That's why being a leader is hard because that's a really hard decision to make right there.
Yeah, that's a tough one.
Yeah, I remember at the master last master.
You're talking about like that very thing.
Like you, you build a relationship with them.
And you know, some people, everyone's in a while.
I'm paraphrasing kind of what you said, where some people will look at it as brown nosy.
Yeah.
And you're like, but it's you build a relationship with them.
Everyone's in a while.
It might brush the brush up against it.
Then I'll come back or whatever.
But the mission is worth that.
Yeah, if I did a brush up against brown nosy in just for a second to accomplish the mission, whatever, then that's what I'm going to do kind of thing.
And that's what it's like, yeah, that makes, that makes good sense.
And really, so when I thought about that, I was like, really what that is is a lack of perspective or people forgetting about the big picture.
You're not letting what the big overall thing is.
We're here to win.
Yes.
But if I got to tell this guy, he's got a, you know, that's a great plan sir.
Yeah.
You've, you come up with some brilliant plans.
Or I'm going to go and execute that thing. So then he says, oh, see, Jockel gets it.
And I'm going to go let him execute on his own.
I'm not going to bother him because he understands my planning.
And then I go back to my guys and I go, hey, here's what we're doing.
A little different from what the boss said, but don't worry.
His intention was there.
I'm not talking about about the boss.
Hey, this is what the boss want to do.
I think this is how we're going to get it done.
Yeah.
Talk about about your boss.
You're just saying we're making some adjustments based on his guidance.
You're actually giving credit.
Yeah.
That's how you get it done.
You're brushing up against brown nosing a little bit.
But again, if you're just a full on brown nose or you're not developing relationships,
you're just, you're just an ask-case or it's not going to go good for you.
Yeah.
You, because, because think about this.
Think about this. Here's why.
And I just thought of this myself.
Here's why a brown nose or isn't developing preparation.
You've been here.
Here's how it's not good to just be a brown nose or does this superior listen to the brown nose or does he respect with their opinion?
No, not really.
Yeah.
He's just looking at him like, oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah. That's old echo. Yep.
Yeah.
Hey, buddy. Yep.
Yep.
You're going to do whatever. So you're nice little, yes, man. Cool.
Yeah.
You give me input. I'm like, oh, thanks.
Echo. That's cool.
Thank you.
Now, hey, the big boys are over here trying to talk.
Can you just excuse yourself?
Yeah.
You don't want to end up like that.
You're kind of the guy who, like,
you know, like the iconic picture of the guy fanning the other guy.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, man. But he's not given any strategic input on the operations.
Not building the relationships.
So yeah.
Build the relationship, man.
Don't confront build.
Yeah.
That's what distracted by that, right?
The feeling you get when this new guy comes.
He did.
I don't like the way he said that to me.
Even though what he said was really important,
I don't like the way he said it.
You know what's interesting is when a lot of leadership books that we've discussed and a lot of leadership guidance will say if you're a new guy.
You know, we're going to say if you're a new leader coming in, you just don't start barking orders, right? You just don't start saying,
Hey, do this. We're changing that.
You assess and you look around and you make sure now occasionally this doesn't happen.
There's things that happen if you're taking over a totally messed up unit or team.
Then you might have to go in there and lay down some law.
But generally, you come in and you assess and you make you then you see what's wrong.
You see where some adjustments can be made.
Now think about that from the other side from down the chain of command.
You also shouldn't jump to conclusions and be like,
Oh, the new boss is an idiot or new boss has this plan.
No, you should be like, okay, let's see what his plan is.
Yeah. You should both have a little period of like a like a cooling down period.
Sure.
But a warming up period.
The opposite of cooling down.
It's a warming up.
It's getting to know each other.
Yeah.
It's funny.
This is way less feel, but it's a big shocker.
It's a great.
Back in time.
He made this one comment where he was explaining like how he rolled with like some of some payments for him.
And like he rolled out.
I was like, oh yeah, like how was that, you know, you want the full report?
Like how was it really?
I forget it was what he was like, he's like now I was a full on, you know, first date roll.
Oh yeah.
But I never heard that before.
I knew exactly what that meant.
It was like, I'm not going to go hard in the middle right off the bat.
He can feel he's not going hard.
And it's just kind of feeling out, you know, a lot of respect throughout the whole day.
The level does that start out in GJ2.
What do you mean?
Like what?
What?
How good do you have to be in GJ2 before you start like having a little nice gentle.
For you know, I, you know what I call is just respectful.
Yeah.
Like here's an example.
You just don't dive on the ankle rock.
Yeah.
You know, two seconds into.
Like, oh really?
I mean, I've had that happen.
And then I've had to, you know, take appropriate call.
Measures.
Right.
And you see it.
And you know that fit.
And that's the whole reason for the first date roll really.
Yeah.
Because it's like, you know, you start to roll like I, you've heard of them.
And you sort of you and or whatever whatever the situation is.
And you guys roll.
And in your mind, you're kind of like, I'm going to give this guy some respect.
And he doesn't.
He goes all out first thing.
It's kind of like, you kind of got, you got offended a little bit.
Not majorly.
But there's that little inkling of, oh, all right.
It's something.
It's not nothing.
But compared to just some dude, you know, let's say we're all training some, do some
new person, whatever in the gym.
You guys are all going hard.
It's all good.
You're going hard.
I know.
Like basically purple belts.
They're coming at me.
Brown belts and black belts.
You know, it's all cool.
You know, it's like mutual respect and we'll roll.
And not saying we, and I'm not saying don't roll hard.
And I'm not saying you don't escalate because as you get to go in, you know,
like things escalated.
And that's, you know, you get to know each other now.
To get after it a little bit.
Yeah.
That's weird.
A little unwritten thing.
Yeah.
Ingejitsu isn't it like, I don't really, I guess it's just respect.
I think you respect.
So yeah, do that up and down the chain of command too.
Yeah.
Like respect.
It's that firm.
Like, like, peer.
Like you said that peer.
Let's get to know it's a little warming up period.
We're in a warming up period.
Exactly.
Just give your bosses that slack.
Yeah.
I'll respect.
Oh, nice.
You know.
Next question.
The quote.
If there is a doubt, there's no doubt.
All right.
Remember that?
Yeah.
From, yeah.
Last time.
Okay.
This would seem to indicate avoiding taking risks.
Many, many businesses or many business decisions involve risk.
Often, there can be a doubt about either of two options.
Doubt that you should maintain the status quo and doubt about pursuing a new opportunity.
To frequent or you frequently talk about dichotomies.
Would you mind sharing your thoughts on this principle?
Yeah.
This is a classic thing.
And it's a great point.
And that's why these little soundbites can be a little bit dangerous sometimes.
Yeah.
These are a little power soundbites.
Because they are that simple.
And of course, I like things to be simple.
Right?
That's the number two law of combat.
It's to keep things simple.
Sure.
But sometimes things like this need a little bit of amplifying information.
And yes, this could be construed as being extremely risk-averse.
Like, hey, if I have any doubt about the safety of success of this mission,
did we're not going to do it?
Yeah.
Which if that was the case, then I would have done a zero missions during my deployments to Iraq.
Same with business.
Never would have started victory.
I'm a man never would have started echelon front because there was risk involved in starting those things.
Never would have done anything.
Really?
Because there's always going to be doubt.
So this is a accurate statement.
And of course, every business has risk.
And so I guess that idea that if there is a doubt there is no doubt is not to be taken.
Literally when it comes to risk, when it comes to risk, don't take it.
Literally.
But what it should be, I think, is like a warning, right?
Like a little warning.
That's in your head.
If there's a doubt, like, okay, we need to think about what's going on here.
We need to understand what is at risk here.
Because, and I just had this conversation with us, you know,
of a company as a matter of fact, I was talking about the dichotomy of leadership.
And I was talking about, you know, giving him examples.
It was like a for instance in, and he was in a technology company.
And I said, you know, if you didn't take risk, you wouldn't, you wouldn't make any progress.
But if you took too much risk, you wouldn't be where you are right now.
Because they're dominating.
So it's like, oh, you're balancing that dichotomy all the time.
So if you were to say, hey, if there's a doubt there is no doubt,
you never would have gotten off the ground.
Now, where I think it becomes a more solid statement is from, like, a moral or an ethical standpoint.
And that is if you think that something is wrong, all that it probably is.
Think you're doing something that you probably shouldn't be doing.
Then there's doubt, and you probably shouldn't be doing it.
I think an easy way to keep yourself in check.
And these days, it's a very real possibility.
It's just if you think that you're being recorded all the times.
Like, if you just think, oh, I'm being recorded, which probably somebody is recording you.
Like, if you decide you think you can get away with something, you're probably not going to get away with it.
Look at all the, just go watch you, too.
You don't caught in the actor, whatever.
People get caught all the time.
So whatever you're doing, think that there could be somebody there with a phone recording you.
And I think that's keeps you morally and ethically in check.
You know, I used to tell my guys that you could be getting watched by CNN or Algesira
or some report, you know, whoever.
You know, you could be getting watched.
And if you're doing something that you shouldn't be doing, you're going to get caught.
So don't do it.
Not to mention these days, we got the aircraft overhead.
They can see everything.
So do the right thing.
That's what you do.
You do the right thing.
If you have any doubt that what you're doing is the right thing, then you should probably shouldn't do it.
A lot of those, a lot of the horrible police actions,
are, you know, recorded by some random person with a phone.
Now, of course, I always need to point out that there's all these good actions that take place every single day.
Millions and millions of police doing the right thing.
Yeah.
No one publishes those, no one uploads those on to YouTube or Facebook.
But the bad acts that are caught, they're caught because someone has a camera.
Yeah.
And so like that's great advice for a cop.
Hey, act like you're being recorded all the time.
Yeah.
Well, it makes it make it make it make it make it make it make it make it.
Because you very well might be.
Yeah.
So do the right thing.
Next question.
Thanks God.
I didn't have cameras when I was a kid.
For all the dumb stuff I did.
Yeah.
I always want to make sure that I'm not sitting here saying, like, everyone out there should do the right thing.
Like me.
Yeah.
I'm not saying that.
If you thought I was saying that, I'm not saying that.
I apologize for even sounding that way.
That was his gum and stupid as the next person and still do dumb stuff.
Try not to.
Yeah.
Oh, good, man.
You don't do dumb stuff right now.
No, it was bad when we had Charlie Plum and Jim Conkelon.
Yeah.
And I'm like, thinking, they're like, hey, this is the way to act right.
And I'm like, don't put me in that category with you guys.
You guys are awesome.
Yeah.
Heroes.
And I'm just over here.
Yeah.
Don't say that about me.
Say, like, hey, talk about character.
You have character.
I'm just over here trying to talk about character.
Yeah.
Check.
Next question.
Should make map.
That's what we're calling make map.
Yeah.
Make map.
That's the Marine Corps martial arts program.
Should make map belts carry over in some way.
Did you just do belts or should everyone start out as a white belt?
No matter what kind of training you've had before.
Yeah.
Uh, yep.
White belt.
Uh, for those of you,
they don't know what make map is.
Make map is the Marine Corps martial arts program.
It's good program.
Solid.
Good place to start the Marine Corps put together.
Good program.
The Army has a really good program to the Army combatives program.
Yeah.
Great stuff.
And both of those are solid, but specifically the Marine Corps.
Makes when the Marine Corps martial arts program has belts.
You get like a 10 belt.
And then I think a green belt.
And then a brown belt.
And then a black belt.
Pretty legit.
Right.
They have a little program.
Um,
There is no equivalency to Gitu.
Like you, you'll know some stuff, but it's, you should just when you go to start
Gitu, you just go with the white belt on.
Now it's the same thing with Duda.
Duda is really close to Gitu as we know.
Duda is really close to Gitu.
If you have a black belt in Duda, cool white belt in Ditu.
Uh, Samba, it's very, you know, again, very similar to Gitu, white belt.
So you're going to get promoted faster.
Yeah.
Because you have a lot of experience wrestling is the same thing.
Like you just don't go, oh, I'm just going to show up as a purple box.
I've been grappling for eight years.
No, it doesn't work that way.
Show up with a white belt.
Be humble.
No big deal.
You'll advance fast.
Don't care about the belts, man.
We talk about this all the time.
Doesn't matter.
Yeah.
Just going there and train.
And that effect having a white belt is kind of nice.
Because there's no pressure whatsoever.
Like just enjoy that.
Enjoy not worrying about getting tapped out.
Enjoy just being able to roll and roll with people that are better than you are worse.
You're the lowest on the bottom of the totem pole.
Yeah.
You can roll with anybody in tap out.
And that's it.
It's cool.
Yeah.
Don't worry about it.
Agreed.
Yeah.
I mean, that it seems kind of self-explanatory.
Maybe a little bit because, you know, it's like anything.
It's like any acolyte.
Because it's really what the belt is essentially.
It's like an acolyte, right?
That you can wear.
I think the belt actually is a sign of where you are on the on the hierarchy.
Yeah.
Right.
And it's a sign though.
Yeah.
It's not written in stone.
It's just a sign because we know that there's.
There's indicate.
Yeah.
It's an indicate.
Right.
Because we know that there's there's.
There's.
Yeah.
It's just an indicator.
But what about like the purpose though, you know.
It's like a. It's like a little thing like a badge.
Okay.
Yeah.
I'm trying to figure if I can count to that.
But I don't think it's like a badge.
Yeah.
I'm trying to figure it out for sure.
Like what it is.
I like belts by the way.
I like it.
I dig the whole thing.
But yeah.
If you get kind of that badge in something specific.
It's all something specific.
Like even like real badges.
You know, it's specific.
Yeah.
So yeah.
When you come and do something else.
It's like, yeah.
You got to get that specific badge.
Yeah.
True.
In, you know.
It's two to your 540.
Right.
They have judo and you did.
They've judo in there.
So, you know, if you're thinking that you did to class, you know,
at noon and then you go to the judo class at two.
Yeah.
You're changing your belts.
If you're different.
You know, you can't just, oh, I'm just going to keep on my gear.
And just teach me judo.
I'm not an annoying and I'll buy you change your belts.
That's how.
You know, that's the different thing.
And like he said, there's so much.
So you're right.
It's vice versa too.
Get your black belt in.
In judo.
Yeah.
But actually this question he said should it, should it translate.
Carry over in some way.
Yeah.
It does carry over in some way.
Right.
You have some love.
This skill.
Yeah.
The skill does not the belt though.
You can start a judo black belt.
Most judo black belts.
Yeah.
You're not going to do well.
And that's just, kind of speaks more for.
Because I think you've seen the idea.
Yeah.
Just, just time on time and training.
It's time and training.
If you've been training longer, you're going to win.
Yeah.
That's the general rule.
You know, of course there's athleticism in the strength.
And there's a lot of a lot.
But if you've been training,
you're going to win.
Yeah.
Pretty much.
Makes sense.
Next question.
I run a five-man team.
Two men down.
What does that mean?
These, these missing two guys.
Oh, it's okay.
So five-man team.
So what?
It's supposed to be seven.
Now it's five words.
It's a five-man team.
Now there's only three.
We don't know.
Wouldn't it?
Well, okay.
Either way, we figure that he's underman.
Sure.
We know that much.
Okay.
Underman team.
Five-man team.
Two-man.
I'm not meeting performance expectations.
No sport coming from my command.
You see a way out other than just getting after it.
I know you also talk about blaming yourself and taking extreme ownership because the people
above you may have different information that leads to prioritized different areas.
However, when I question things like why we don't have enough people working in different
zones when clearly there's an imbalance in zones.
To the point customers notice or it makes it difficult for colleagues to do their jobs.
Then I'm deemed argumentative and that I don't have the best intentions.
This was with a manager that is in charge of business and I would think understands my perspective more.
We're supposed to have a culture of feedback, but he isn't receptive.
I'm not the only one who said that about him as well.
This all leads to me.
This all leads me to think that I must just be fake and go through the motions.
But that disgust me.
Yeah.
So what do we do here?
How do we take ownership of this?
How do you take ownership of your boss not listening to you not hearing what you're saying?
Well, the way you take ownership of that isn't to say my boss doesn't listen and doesn't understand.
The way to take ownership of that is to say that I'm not a I'm not doing a good job of getting my information to my boss.
I'm not doing a good job of convincing my boss.
I'm not doing a good job of influencing my boss.
Boss.
So you can need to be mad about that or you can change your approach.
Step one, we're going back to this again today.
Build a relationship with that person.
Now there's a chance that that disgusts you.
There is, right?
I've talked about that before.
I've literally said that I had great relationships with people that I had like a visual hatred for.
I still had a good relationship with them and it worked very well with them.
If it disgust you and you can't do that.
Then there's other jobs, right?
We don't have to interact with other people.
You can be like a long haul truck driver.
You can be a technical writer.
You know, where you just look at the information and turn it into words.
You can be a lab technician.
We don't have to interact with a lot of different people.
And that's cool.
There's a lot of jobs out there that require very little human and action.
That's fine.
Because if you think you're going to go through life only working with people that you get along with
you're wrong.
That's not going to happen.
Especially if you want to run teams and you want to lead and you have to learn how to get over the fact that you might
have to work with people that you don't like.
And by the way, on top of that, if they know that you don't like them, that is not going to make your
job easier.
And it's not going to make your life better.
In fact, it's going to make your life more miserable.
The people that I had visceral hatred for that that I worked for.
It wasn't that bad because at least they thought I liked them.
And I acted like it and they liked me.
So it's like, okay, it's a little painful.
But you know what?
It's pretty low impact as opposed to like head to head conflict every single day.
And by the way, when you have head to head conflict every day, you're miserable, you're going to
advance slower, you're going to have less control over your fate.
You're not going to get promoted.
And on top of that, you're going to get assigned the crappiest possible jobs because your boss doesn't like you.
And he likes that other guy over there.
So he's going to get the easy job.
He's going to get go, you go save the princess.
Jocco goes to lay the dragon, right?
And of course, you know, I prefer to say the dragon.
Never have the princess.
But that's what I'm saying.
Like you want to get along with this person.
You want to play the long game.
And here's the deal.
When you play the long game, if the person sucks as bad as you say they do, they'll end up
making their own bed and having to lie in it and they'll end up working for you.
Now, also make sure that you come to the table with solutions, not just complaints and problems.
Right?
You can see that this guy's talking about, we don't have enough guys and you need to square these
zones.
What's your solution?
The problems.
And what's really smart to do?
And you've got to be a little bit careful with this, but what can be very smart to do is,
if you can solve the problem with your own internal assets, just go and execute on it and solve it.
You know, if you use your own internal assets to solve a problem,
make the change, make it happen in an implement and you go to the Boston say, hey, this is what we did.
There was this problem on our zones or whatever.
Yeah, we made this adjustment.
I took two guys from this blah, blah, blah, blah.
I moved them around and now here's where we're at.
We're getting better results.
You have to be careful because you can say that in such a way that you're thrown in your boss's face, right?
Absolutely do that.
Now, even though you're trying to build a relationship and trying to help the mission, you still end up with an adversarial relationship with your boss.
Now things go negative again.
So you've got to be careful when you do this.
You can also just present the idea and present the solution, be like, hey, boss, here's what I want to do.
Which is, that's once you've got the relationship trust built up.
That doesn't there, then you can't just go present a broad, present a solution of how you're going to do it.
You're going to do it. It's not going to let you do it because you just trust you because you've got an adversarial relationship with you.
You see where this is?
Yeah.
You see how this works?
Another thing he says near.
He says, uh, he says, uh, I would think the manager, this was a manager that has in charge of the business and I would think he understands my perspective more.
Right?
So here we go.
If you want to take ownership of things and how you and you look at your boss and say,
he doesn't blame my perspective or doesn't understand my perspective, that's his fault.
You know the way I look at that, if you don't understand my perspective as my boss, it's my fault.
That means I'm not explaining to you.
It means I'm not giving you enough information.
It means I'm not convinced.
It means I'm not building relationships that you can see my perspective.
That's what that is.
So don't blame the boss.
Step up your game, build a relationship, teach him the perspective and win.
And I'll tell you one more little thing on this from a to get away from the discussed mindset.
Because I understand that.
You know, the one good way to get away from the discussed mindset is to get into the game mindset.
The game, like this is a game.
And this guy that I don't like, I'm going to become best friends with him.
Watch.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like, okay.
Oh, you don't like this guy.
Cool watch.
Yeah.
Watch this.
That's how it's going to go.
And you're going to have fun with it.
And you're going to try and win the game, which is good.
Sure.
That understanding perspective, I think that's everyday, almost everyday kind of thing, where.
Okay.
So my wife.
We're on our way to the park.
This is today, by the way.
And she's like, oh, she said, it's a, the superk's.
There's one you can go straight. This one you'd make a right then you make another left.
It's two parks.
And I don't know which one we're going to.
I don't really mind which one we go to.
So she's like, yeah, let's let's go to the other one.
Right.
And she mentions the, I don't know what you can one is the other one.
But whatever I'll follow your direction.
So she said, okay, make her.
She said, she goes stay in this lane.
She doesn't motion though.
She goes stay in this lane.
So I'm thinking, okay, and we're going to stay in this lane.
She goes, okay.
Turn here.
But then so she's not like pointing like turn here.
It's like because there's a turn right here.
Then there's one like right here.
You know, turn here can apply to like a bunch of stuff.
But in her mind, it's super clear, you know.
So if I would have got mad or actually,
I can see how people can get frustrated right there.
Right.
So if I would express myself, you're not being more clear.
Boom.
Now we're against the relationship because I didn't,
In my mind, I'm like, I can't read your mind.
It's plain better.
I don't want to leave.
It's got a funny story.
He was there on night visions in a home.
He's telling the driver.
He's in the vehicle commander.
See, which is the, basically the pat, the front passenger.
See, and he's, he's pointing.
He's going, hey, turn here.
Here.
Yeah.
And the guy just keeps driving.
And he goes, bro, what are you doing?
And the guy's like, I can't see you because when you have night vision goggles on,
you have no peripheral vision.
He's like, I can't see your fingers.
And life's like, oh, sorry.
Because what you do, proper call is right turn 30 meters, right turn 500 meters,
right turn 100 meters, right turn coming up, right turn boom.
And that way the person can do it.
Yeah.
But life was pointing, but the guy couldn't see it.
But there's this very similar to your wife who's not pointing.
Yeah, she wasn't pointing at the time.
Well, here's the thing, too.
And this is jamming up.
Yeah, I'm not going to take too long in this one.
But the way girls take your time.
The girl, the way girls.
Female females, girls.
Take, you remember the last time you talked to the
you generalized females, go ahead.
At your peril.
No, it wasn't my peril because that was the same thing.
What?
It was a joint of my skin.
Yeah.
Exactly.
It's the same thing.
Same deal.
No one drew bike.
No, it's completely correct.
No, no.
Did you know someone drew you on a tricin?
On a animated job.
I was legit.
It was very, very good.
Separate the point.
But it was good.
There was also some, there was also some pretty.
Non-working bicycles that were drawn.
Correct.
Yeah.
And I did it.
And this by no means says, you know, the superiority or inferiority of any of the sex at all.
I'm just saying there's a study done.
Girls in guys interpret and give directions in completely different ways because of how they
how they're brain formulates like directions.
Girls kind of require this real generally.
Girls require like land.
And we're Jordan B. Peterson back on the top of this.
Okay.
I want to add as much as you can.
So girls they prefer like landmarks and you know, like the voice on the thing.
Like, she'll be on this one.
So they can.
Wait, you mean the seary voice.
Seary voice, yeah, whatever.
Whatever.
Yeah.
I mean those can help guys too or whatever.
That navigation voice wasn't part of this study.
So I shouldn't mention the voice.
But they prefer like landmarks.
Like make or write.
Right.
Interesting.
In a building jet.
When when you're flying a jet plane.
Sure.
Yeah.
Which which I have done a backseat ride in F. 18 before.
But the voice that talks to you is a female voice and I was told that it's because it relaxes.
It gets the attention of and then kind of relaxes the pilots.
So it says like like when I was flying and I don't know why I wasn't like we were going to die.
But at all like I'm not sure.
Yeah.
But the thing would say warning.
It was a girl's voice and say warning.
Yeah.
And they say it's relaxing a little bit.
I could dig it.
You know typically if my wife is giving me directions it's not relaxing.
I'm not saying it's stressful but it's not relaxing.
So where were you going with this?
The girl that you said was going to be sure.
I'm just saying it's dangerous to do the directions thing.
The navigation thing with your wife or your girlfriend or with the girl.
With the girl.
Like if you let's say you and a girl in whatever capacity.
And whatever capacity is sitting next to you.
And you guys are you know how like when we're looking for the hotel.
Yeah.
You were both sort of looking for the hotel.
And we're both kind of navigating and then I failed.
Then you just jump and you remember that.
You actually debrief me.
Yeah.
You're like hey when it was time when I failed at Nav you were just like I got this here.
Right turn coming up 500 meters.
Right turn 200 meters.
Yeah.
Right turn 100 meters.
Right turn right turn right turn.
Okay.
Get it right hand lane and you were just like cool.
Yeah.
Yes.
So easy.
Consider that type of situation before you took over.
Consider that situation when you were both trying to navigate.
If you do that with a girl you you were more likely to run into problems because of this.
They interpret it.
They know what this is and you know.
They interpret and give directions in different ways because the brain works different.
They require like landmarks got kind of guide them like okay make a right.
At this make a left at this.
Okay.
That helps sure.
But it's more what the guys go off of.
They build a map in their head.
So if they're like okay.
Like if they looked at them.
They would be like okay they'd have a better understanding.
Okay.
So sure I can make a right at the building or whatever.
But when they make a right they're like okay I made that right.
So here I am physically oriented you know and they kind of just make sense of that way more than the girls do.
I'm not saying it's like one is black one is white.
I'm seeing one does one one one does more than I can see.
Yeah.
It's more than 10 times because it's how your mind works.
Okay.
This is just a study.
I didn't do the study.
Anyway.
I'm going to address this with echo on social media can address it to echo.
I'm out.
I will say this and I'll believe the study I sure will because I haven't been the other one.
As if you have it if you listen to all the podcast.
Echo also said that girls cannot draw off hand a functional bicycle.
bicycle.
Correct.
And he got a lot he got a lot of attempts.
Yeah.
And he did get one person that put a gift to gift.
Animated gift.
Animated gift of echo himself.
Riding a tricycle.
Yeah.
It was pretty awesome.
Again, beside the point.
But it was very, very awesome.
I don't even have any idea what the point of anything that we've said in the last few minutes.
And I don't even want you to try to point.
We're talking about miscommunication.
Like I can't read your mind.
You got a community.
You know, like he don't understand my perspective.
He's supposed to understand kind of thing.
You know, got it running into that.
Yes.
True man.
So you got to be clear.
He's what I'm saying.
Like how you were when we were finding that steak place or whatever.
That's where we were.
That was a good steak.
By the way.
Yes.
All right.
Next question.
Do you think we, do you think you would take up
Juditsu in your 40s if you had been introduced to something else in your 20s, like
Mointai boxing and such.
I'm struggling with Juditsu.
I respect that a lot out of it.
I have an easier time with boxing and kickboxing.
Just interesting.
I'm just making it a little bit like I have an easier time with these things.
Gotcha.
Yeah.
So that's why I'm going to focus on.
Maybe.
Just giving your most recent admission that you're, you are boring.
Obviously you're not because you're popular.
Do you think you'd pick it up later in life?
Juditsu to me is a chore.
Boxing kickboxing is fun.
I think because in my youth, I figured out how to move my body in that way.
I'm 43 by the way.
So first of all, do I think I would go to Juditsu or
start Juditsu or get into Juditsu in my 40s if I hadn't, if I had been, yes, absolutely.
100%.
The power of Juditsu is very real.
It's a real thing.
And once I recognized it, I wanted to have that power.
The power to choke people, arm walk them, dominate, win, like win with no mercy.
Now what's interesting about this is there's certain people like certain things.
And he even says like, I have an easier time with kickboxing and boxing because he's, he's part of that's because he's done it for a long time since this 20s.
So it's just easy for him.
And it like, Juditsu seems like a chore for him because you know what else he's getting beat up, you know, if he hasn't just getting into it now.
He's getting beat up.
He's getting chore.
Yeah, that's a chore man.
It's hard.
It's hard on the ego.
Yeah.
I thought of an interesting rule.
If you don't like Juditsu, if you don't think you like,
maybe you, what do you think of this rule?
If you don't think you like Juditsu, take it and I'll try to think of taking it for six months, take it for three months.
And I said, take it until you legitimately submit someone that is comparable in some way to you.
Yeah.
You think that's a good rule?
I think that's a good rule.
Yeah.
That's a good rule.
Because I'm not talking about you tap someone out that's weak and small or weaker than you and smaller than you.
And then you like, see, I can tap my normal equipment now.
No, I'm talking about someone that's equivalent to someone that has some comparable, like physical attributes to you.
Because I believe that once somebody gets the taste of the power and also this, this also implies or is actually,
if, if you train enough that you submit someone, that means you got submitted a thousand, probably 500 times.
Yeah.
I think that's a good number.
If you, by the time you submit, well, someone in Juditsu, you've probably been submitted 500 times.
Okay.
400 times.
300 times.
Yeah.
If you go to a Juditsu Academy as a white belt, zero training.
You're going to get submitted.
Four times, five times, six times, a class.
Right.
Well, it just depends if there's other white belts that are for second, third, fourth, fifth day,
for first month.
So you could, now, yeah, you could, depends.
And that you get submitted.
You're, oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
You're not having that.
It's, it's 300 times.
It's definitely more than 100.
But I wouldn't say before the time to 100 times in a week.
Wait, before it did, wait, it was, did you say before you kept up?
Anybody.
Yes.
Yeah.
That's going to depend.
If you have other white belts in first day, guys, let's say you've, of course, you've been training
for three weeks.
You can tap out something that hasn't been training.
Yeah.
That's how fast you can learn a Juditsu.
When I, the first moves that I learned, I didn't, I probably knew like a month's worth of
Juditsu, but no one could hang with me because I knew like the basics, though.
I don't even knew what to do.
Yeah.
Consider a rear naked choke.
All you have to do is you can learn the rear naked choke one day in the beginning of class.
And all you have to figure out when you roll.
If a guy doesn't have much experience, all you have to figure out is how to get on his back.
It's all you got to do.
It's really cool when you teach kids Juditsu.
Like you can say something like,
you could give them the class on how to pass the guard.
Yeah.
Right.
And they would start to do what you told them to do, or you could say,
Okay, your goal is to get out of their legs and get around.
Yeah.
And they'll figure out how to do it.
And it's pretty awesome.
Yeah.
And then what you do is you give a couple little pointers.
Because their instincts will be a little bit off, but you can look a couple little pointers.
A couple things to work with and then they'll develop those and some really cool stuff.
Yeah.
And I don't know if I said this before, but that even is true.
That is much, but it's still true with adults.
Yeah.
Because if you teach them the technique first and then you say, hey, that those techniques I taught you,
that's passing the guard and it doesn't.
It's way easier to like get.
It's almost like getting a big piece of clay and being like, okay, make the head,
make the body, make the arms that's it.
And then they're like, okay, now you got the arms that's cool.
Now I'll make the fingers.
Now I'll make the, you know, and then start to go with the details there as far as the technical
techniques with like passing the guard.
But that's all actually that's how I learned from Dean where he would teach stuff.
But I would just see him like getting past and I know, okay, when he gets past you,
that's like hard to get out of.
So that's what I want to try to do.
And one guy's would get past the firm.
Yeah.
So I thought that it really worked better that way to just to teach that way.
If someone's starting from zero.
Yeah.
Because it's hard to put into context when you don't know anything.
Like yeah, I'm doing this cool light's pretty cool.
It's doing the intro class at the master.
Because you have a lot of people that never done to you to do it.
Yeah.
And that's like how and how you're saying to teach is exactly how we teach.
That's like, hey, this is the concept and then we teach a couple little moves of like what
to do there and then you watch people get after it and they do get it.
Yeah.
It's pretty cool.
But yes, here the reason for this.
And this school's for anything by the way, if you are successful, especially if they're all,
if they're kind of similar like in this case where he's like, okay, martial arts, right?
You do, you do, I'm going to start you do it to way late.
Meanwhile, I have experience doing,
a very time boxing.
So if he has experience assuming he's been somewhat successful, not in a certain competition,
but not not competition, just so he knows what he's doing.
When he throws a punch, he can have a level of success of that punch landing.
You know, like, and it's going to be pretty often if he has 20 years experience,
he can take whatever.
So he's experiencing little, how should I say little,
micro successes when he jumps in the boxing situation.
And when you take a jetzery's getting a lot of failure.
After all, it's a huge chore.
And that's life.
So if you're, if you're going in with nothing, you have no micro, you know,
success is no nothing.
You're just going in.
I don't train anything.
I go in, sure.
I'll take some hits.
I'll take some failures because I'm learning this new thing.
But if you have it compared to, look, I'm going to come into victory MMA.
I'm going to see the kickboxing situation going on.
I'm going to say jetzery situation going on.
My brain is automatically going to be like, okay, what's going to be the best experience
from your hand?
Micro victories.
If I'm going to go where the victories are, I'm going to go where the payoff is.
You know, those payoffs where I can land punches.
I can do it.
I can know what I'm doing.
Dang.
When I move my body, it does what I want it to do.
And it yield success.
Yeah, it's effective.
Or I can go to jjitsu and where everyone else has success.
Everyone else is getting their payoff.
Not me, by the way.
Everyone else is.
I'm getting tapped out and that part in and of itself is like, that's, especially if you're
a guy.
Is it a personality thing where some people, as soon as they get,
as soon as they get tapped into jjitsu, they're like, oh my god, I need to learn this immediately.
Like, kiss.
You know, when you, you don't people get the jjitsu bug?
Yeah, sure.
Yeah.
That would not everyone gets the jjitsu bug, right?
Not everyone.
There's a lot of people, though.
Well, what percentage of people get the jjitsu bug?
Oh, dang, I am 20%.
That'd be percent.
Depends.
Like, 20% of who, all people people start human beings.
Yeah.
It's probably not even 20%.
It's weird as much as there is jjitsu.
As much as we talk about it in a very positive way.
People normal people have a hard time with it.
It's weird for me to admit that.
But if I think about it, and I've talked about this before, like, all the people that
I've introduced jjitsu over the years, I think I have, like, maybe four blockbelts of people that I fully like they started jjitsu because of me.
I'm talking, so that with those percentages, it's very, very small.
People that actually stick with it and get the bug.
Yeah.
Why not even four?
And, but you, and you can get the bug and the bug kind of whereoff.
You know how that is?
Where?
You know?
I remember.
Then that's not the bug.
That's not the real bug.
That's like the diet.
Jjitsu bug or something.
Bug light.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Well, it's a bug light because people get purple belt and then they don't show up anymore.
People can brown belt, they don't show people.
Yeah.
People can't get blue belt and they don't show up anymore.
And then there's people get the word.
Keep training.
Yeah.
That's the bug.
That's the real bug.
Yeah.
That's like when you dream about it, you know how like you're dreaming.
You're learning to move and you'll dream up there.
It'll just kind of be in your think in your mind, you know, it's kind of the subconscious.
I thought that that was kind of it, but in my experience that that goes away somehow.
It depends on what you're into.
Mm.
But I don't know.
Yeah.
But nonetheless, he, that's it.
That's what I think because that's pretty common.
Yeah.
That's the pressure.
So it was there.
It was like an actual advice.
Yeah.
Like, you think you think you, it's.
I would have.
That's what my answers are.
Yes.
I would have.
Well, but it's again, but you have to have this that actually you know on.
I thought it, but when you said it and where kill the full feeding your food right um.
And then show that even I please, what once said, can I make more fun with these things towards you?
Think again if you did get an idea to life or anything with you gets hungry upgienery.
Like, actually we wanted that to come right through to God.
people to train with other people that gave me the hardest runs. Yeah, and my absolute most favorite people to train with other people that actually can get me.
You know, but it's again when you have to have this there's this third factor here where the kickbox scene in box
It's right there. I could be right there right now and when he's meaning, you know, just doing it and
But I'm not I'm over here and this guy's mountain on me and he's yeah, he's choking me and stuff like this man
It's I date man. It makes me so I guess we could reverse this question say like okay, joccal then when why why aren't you in boxing and striking all the time
For me that's a pretty it's actually not that hard of an answer
I've done boxing and striking and the thing that is different is in boxing and striking even though you're talking about micro wins
Most of the nights of training boxing or kickboxing
They're the micro wins are against pads and a bag
Right because you're not sparring every night and if you are sparring every night, you're making a mistake
Yeah, and you're not even going as hard as you're not compared to the yeah, I mean you can have fun
We do that too like we we call it playing tag where you're like you're like touching the person you're you're
It's almost like a slap fight, you know, but you can't do that ever you can't sparring every night
And you shouldn't sparring every night if you are sparring every night
You're wrong but you can roll every night. Yeah, you can get you can get full victories not micro victories full on some missions
Yeah, yeah, and I agree and I think that if you
That it did say it really depends on who you are but to me that was the the big time appeal and
Still is the legitimate appeal of
Juditsu where you know like people even now they'll be like hey, but this martial arts is superior because this and that but
Really, Juditsu's kind of being tested the best because it's going against in every day
All speed enemy enemy quote unquote enemy
You're funny when people are like how would you ever get someone's armed there
You don't even know me. Yeah, they're like oh, yeah, you get to get eat that. I'm locked try that on me. It's like, oh, okay. Yeah
What's that just reading about it didn't?
Gordon Ryan just beat somebody he let called it yeah, he called it minimal more seven
Yeah, he was like I'm gonna beat you with this and he did it within this amount of time
Did it that's by the way yeah, and that's how it is man and that's against a high level guy
Well, Gordon Ryan's obviously one of the best guys right now
But that that is kind of how juditsu is you know unless it's like some that's huge giant like football player
Just spashing and riding away the whole time if you're it's something engaging you that's kind of how it is where you're like oh
I can choke if they don't know you just and you know
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure. They're like you just make it my arm there
Gordon Ryan did not do that to someone that didn't know
I know only that's the funny because that's those those those are the Hicks in stories
You know like Hicks and would be like I'm gonna every all of you 14 black belts
I'm gonna arm lock your left arm all of you and you do it all of black belts
Yeah
That's it. You heard those stories right? Yeah, I rolled with Hicks and I've talked about that before yeah
Hicks is really good at you, too
Sure
Yeah, but yes, but I don't know though. So what do you do though like what what's your no effect it's right?
It's not on our back to it. My advice is that like I said that's why I think my new rule is
Train until you submit someone that is legitimately comparable to you
And then if you don't like it still
Didn't don't train like I there was one guy on social media that like kept coming back to me like I know I hate you get to you
I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I was like after awhile
I'm like okay, can you defend yourself against you know I take down can you get up from the bottom?
Okay, then go find something else to do and quick complaining to me about it
Like everyone is not meant for you to I get it. Yeah. Fine
Yeah, I almost but it's still is beneficial though feels like it is for
That's what it feels like that's why I'm saying that's what it feels like to you and me and to the people that we hang out with
And that's why when I was saying like some people don't like you get to it's really weird for me
Yeah, I have a hard time with their perspective. Yeah, you're gonna be
That's really Mr. Mr. Understand their perspective
And you tell me like I don't really like you did so it's like why?
Why would you not like it?
Straight up. Yeah, God you don't like it makes life easier for me one person
I'm not afraid about being able to choke me. Yeah for sure
Okay, I would say this try this if you in this situation this is what I would do
Try to forget about but like when you're like okay, I'm gonna go jujitsu today
Forget about boxing as a concept forget about kickbox forget about it like don't don't think about that
Like your whole thing right now is like it's just jujitsu and
Or think of it as like just this complete learning experience
Of course but forget about the boxing because anytime like that's how that's what's gonna
Happened when you keep that boxing on your mind or the keep boxing on your mind
You're like for why am I doing this when I could be doing boxing which was like bad ass anyway, you know kind of thing
But just forget about it
Yeah
I think that's the thing you know how like guys in the UFC that'll that'll happen sometimes where they're super good at jujitsu
Yeah, and then the train boxing it's like funny. Yeah, and it's vice versa too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like I was just saying like some people and this is true with fighters some fighters don't like
Striking they don't like to get hit specifically no one minds punching people some people like it
Some people like they they truly like to punch someone else in the head
Some people are good with it most people are good with it because it feels good
Some people don't like to get hit they really don't like that
Some people don't like to get smashed on the ground they get claustrophobic right then like that
And so different people have a little different
I don't know if calm weakness is but preferences yeah, and you can see that very clearly
Especially in the earlier UFC's nowadays you're not getting the UFC if you're super uncomfortable in any arena of
martial arts if you're just if you're just super uncomfortable stand up
You you you you you know maybe you might make it under a card barely, but you don't see that on me
Yeah, I like that really do it until you tap someone out. Yeah, it's like legit
Yeah, comparable to you because what I think happens once you do that
And you got the benefit of getting tapped out which is a bet which to me motivates me more than just tapping someone out
Yeah, like how did someone control me think about that another human being can control me completely
Did Dean those that to me sometimes and I'm sitting here thinking to myself. I'm like man
I've been training for a really long time and I'm a grown man in good physical condition
Relatively strong and he can
Cold me in a position where I cannot do anything and I can actually do that to him too not as clearly not as often
But like we he's got he's got three physicians. He can do it to me
And I think he can cross side mount
And on all force right if I'm in one of those positions or he's one of those positions on me
He I'm doomed to do for me. It's only I don't have mount on him. His mount escape is awesome and my mount's not really good
So he's he can get out of that so it's no big deal, but cross side or when he's on all force
I'm gonna torture him and we both know we're gonna get tortured in those positions
For him it's too busy for him. He either's two positions. He's gonna get tortured in for me
There's three positions. I'm gonna get tortured tortured tortured. Yeah tortured. Yes, sir. Oh
You've seen it. Yeah, yeah, you felt it, too
Yeah, both examples all
Example except the mount though. I can escape mount you have good. Yeah, no mountain escape. Yeah, you have big escape
So not as but yeah, no, that's bad. I dig it
That isn't that weird though. You have you know 25 over 25 years experience
Train very strong and big by the way like compared to like a normal duty to guy like you're a big you're a
Think that's huge
Played you did to player big strong experience know what to do know what not to do all that doesn't mean anything
I think that's for that moment. Don't even mean nothing. Yeah. Holy cow. Yeah. That's a scary thing. Yeah
Next question. Good evening
I'm a firefighter paramedic and
I'm still the rookie at my station the fire services notorious for politics within the ranks and rookie's often get the worst of it
My question is how can I implement extreme ownership in a situation where the blame falls to me anyway
How can I have my superior view this as a positive trait when every rookie gets the short end of the stick
And when none of my superiors are willing to engage in extreme ownership
I'm taking ownership however the typical response along is along the lines of that's correct. It is your phone
Yeah
You know what
That's correct. It is your fault
That's what extreme ownership is that's what it is
That's what it is
That's what extreme ownership it is you're saying it's your fault. You're not just saying it so they leave you alone
You're saying it because you're taking ownership of it then you can fix what is wrong
That's what it is. So and I will tell you the boss will notice
He will he'll notice and the people above you in the chain of command will notice they will notice that you are taking ownership
They will notice it yourself in problems. I'll notice that that will then give you a good reputation
But taking extreme ownership does not absolve you of the blame that's what's the opposite of that
You are at fault. That's the whole point. That's the whole point and
This is one of those classic questions I get asked all the time
It's like what if they say it?
What if they say that's right it is your fault. That's what you're saying
So it doesn't matter. It's true in business
And it's true in life too if you're blaming other people for things that are going wrong you're not going to fix them
You can't fix them because in your mind you don't control them. They're not your fault. So
If you want to take extreme ownership
At work and in business and in life stop blaming other people and blame yourself and realize that it
It actually is your fault that's correct own it and do something about it
Do you think that sometimes
Like this you know how some people will
At like at the monsters people will say they'll ask you this and they'll say it'll be similar to this
Where it will be like like I'm trying to take extreme ownership, but you know something like this happens
And then you say well yeah like you take extreme ownership you actually take the blame and then you talk about how you're going to fix the problem
Right like that's how you do you don't just take you don't say yes my fault and then boom
Work good work done my bus kind of thing
It's for that's ego it's funny because your ego is like if I say like echo this went wrong and it's my fault
And then you go yeah, yeah, you should have done a better job. I get that's that's my defam like
What are you talking about? Well, you know, I you know, I would have been able to do a better if you were to dumb
So even though I'm saying I'm taking the initiative. I'm not actually taking ownership. Yeah, so that was actually going to be
Like a statement
It's just people so it's almost like
Maybe not but it's almost like
Like let's say I did something and I messed up. I caught my own mistake right in the middle of doing it
I was like man. I'm so dumb and it was a dumb mistake
What I'm so dumb and you said yeah, you're a dumb and I'm like wait don't call me dumb
Right, it's kind of like that right?
Just like man you just said you're dumb kind of thing
You know what else is funny as to you hear people make excuses
like
But instead of taking the blame instead of taking owning the excuse they they
So like let's say
I wasn't prepared for a podcast
Or let's say no I said hey we're gonna we can try and record on Wednesday, but I don't think I'm gonna be able to do it because I have this going on and my
Dog did this and my kid did that
And I'm I'm making excuses
Instead of saying like hey, I didn't plan well enough and I didn't anticipate some things that I should have anticipated and now I'm not gonna be ready
Yeah, it's my fault. Yeah, yeah now if you get in what this is what happens and this is the difference man
If you have the habit of actually saying like hey, I didn't anticipate this and it's actually my fault
Then you know what you do you plan better
Yeah
How many times have I called you up and said hey echo not ready to record the podcast?
Yeah, you times
No, actually no you said I might not be ready and then
Right, I got mad at you. Yeah, I got mad
So and but I I was actually giving you a warning of like hey, I'm gonna be it's gonna be tight
But I knew I was gonna have to work to try and get it done what I'm saying is
When you truly say like everything that's happening in my world is my fault
You don't make excuses anymore up front you yeah, and even if you do you say like hey here's what's going on
And this is what I'm gonna do to get over them. Yeah, it's a big difference man. It has a huge impact
When you're saying
Here's a good one like this is one of them probably the most common thing of anything and of any excuse
He's I don't have time
That's the most is there anymore common excuse. I don't have time besides the dog. I don't work right
I don't not that I know by the way one time the dog literally ate my kids
I'll work here because I'll chew it up. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll get you know more
Keep your do keep your in a dog secure area. Yeah, so there's no eat
There's no bigger excuse that gets used more common at least for like a long term goal like a like hey. I want to
You name it yeah, I want to
You know, but I want to play piano on a play guitar. I want to write a book. I want to
Just study I want to get my degree all this stuff right anything is just I don't have time
I want to get shape right I want to run every it's it's all hey even even I want to spend more time with my kids
But I have time yeah, so that's that's the pre-given excuse
But when you blame all these other things
The time that it's not your fault that you don't have time it's the fault of the
Schedule it's the fault of the weather it's the fault of it's the lack of time the fact of the matters if you take ownership of that
If you take ownership of the time
You will have time because you'll make time
Yeah, and when I call you up and say hey, I might not be able to get ready
What I'm doing is I'm saying okay, I'm giving him a warning and then I'm looking at my schedule going where can I finish
Prep it or when I can I prepare for this yeah
When can I get this done that's the ultimate excuse
For so many people I don't have time and
minute you say that you don't have control over the time you do have control over the time
I guess what hey are there people that are working three jobs?
Yes, there are and might they have all are just things that they're gonna have to edit out of their schedule
Yes, there are one of the first things you should edit out of your schedule YouTube
Social media surfing internet surfing right what else do we do to waste time you don't I mean like we waste time doing fix TV
So
If you if you have an excuse
Turn it back on yourself and take control of it. That's all I'm saying
We got you make the time you make the time
Yeah, a little sight time saving element. I don't even know if it's a tip
It's just a little thing to consider when you cruise cruise extra hard so you can get it done in half the time
I'm disciplined with my time so I can cruise yeah, sometimes
Just funny equals cruising. Yes, that's the freedom part of cruising
The time is like a it can be kind of like a balloon you know with like little leaks in it where you know you want
Like like time will just kind of leak away right so if you're not you know like it
Thank you I think you were the one who kind of told me where you're like you should you should like plan kind of everything
You got to go just plan it all and get it done and then the rest of that time is all is yeah, you're a type and free
Yeah, so if you're like okay
I have stuff to do today, but I'm not gonna plan it necessarily I'm just gonna sort of get it done tomorrow at some point
You could get one thing done you could just be you know messing around of whatever and then you get another thing done and you kind of like dang that took me
Kind of all day a lot of times. So you know especially you have like three four things
But all those like little in between times if you can add them all up, but sure
Okay, a workout takes let's say you really want to go hard and say I want to work on for an hour and a half every day
But I don't really have a free hour and a half in a row right because I got to go pick up my kids
I didn't got to go do this I got to drop them all how you do all this stuff
But if
Most of the time if you're like okay, I'm gonna schedule all these things and I'm gonna boom boom again
All done then it's almost like you're shifting your time so it doesn't just leak through the little things that you have to do when you allow it to
I think it was you that originally talked about this how much work people get done before like vacation
Like they know what are going on vacation
I don't know what everything done do that every day. Yes, you have more free time
Yeah, just even like when you're leaving
Hit this sort of follow me. I did this the other day
I went I actually went to 24 our fitness got a good workout by the way
So I went to an apartment with got my workout or whatever came out came in my truck. I was checking
Checking the crypto stuff, but so I got my truck checked it and I was checking it and then I like checks some other alerts
You know
You check it and boom boom and then I and then I left so I remember when I put my phone down and I
Started it up and I left I kind of looked over and you could see the window of 24 fitness and you know
Like people that work at the front desk are there so I for whatever reason I'm thinking to myself
I wonder if they were watching me like oh another person it take to do his phone and they're kind of just had that thought, you know
That I thought about how to wait
There that was like a good maybe 10 minutes. Oh, yeah that I just like let leak away right there
Hey, if that was part of my schedule if I needed to check these things for sure
I could have like if that was on some sort of a schedule or if I
If I chose to do that at a specific time
I would have got that 10 minutes back somehow like that 10 minutes when the leak to it no I actually by the time I was left the gym
At that particular kind of time if I didn't let that 10 minutes I would have been home already doing other stuff that I should have schedules
Yeah work doing it. Yeah exactly right and we do that all day that kind of stuff don't let you talk
But another thing we're another time or another situation where this works what you're saying about this
Taking ownership in for real take ownership. Yeah, don't be like hey
You know, you know, it's my fault then this is your phone. Be like oh, what is there?
What kind of thing? I'm not saying he said that but I'm saying that can is apologizing when you apologize to someone you know
Like someone's like hey, hey look look mean you had a disagreement
escalated whatever then the next time like hey man. I'm sorry, you know, but but you did kind of say something
You know, but I am sorry, you know, kind of thing. You know, yeah, right so you're putting a button there
Yeah, you're putting this at it's not real sort of true apology. It's not effective at all like you yeah or if you explain like but I was just feeling this or you know
It's just you know any time there's not like a full on 100% full speed apology towards someone like don't mention
The reasons why you felt that way don't mention you kind of justification on why you went there with your mind
Whatever it's all just like this what it did this all like terrible and whatever and I'm straight up sorry
That's so effective
Yeah, speaking of apologies next question. I'm sorry for taking so long with that and you know, but you were really
Eugenia I'm just saying next question jocco the military taught me to never apologize
Speaking of it because it's a sign of weakness
Had a conversation with a coworker who says that extreme ownership is the same as apologizing
so first of all no
Apologizing is actually not a sign of weakness and whoever
Was putting that out whoever taught that was actually to insecure about themselves and their leadership capability to admit when they were wrong or made a mistake
And and really insecure about a lot of other things most likely
People it's actually the opposite people that can't admit their mistakes are weak
Mm-hmm and
People that can't apologize when they screw up our weak. They're scared
They're scared to take ownership and they're protective of their ego
Now that being said
Extreme ownership is not the same as apologizing, but they're definitely similar
You know extreme ownership means you're admitting that there's some kind of a problem and you're taking ownership of that problem
If it's something that you did wrong then you're you're taking ownership of that mistake
The key part as you already said is not that you're just
Oaning the problem you're actually solving the problem
And yeah if you screw something up or you make a mistake then apologize for it apologize for your shortfalls
And then you can move forward
Sarah Armstrong she's said a couple times on Twitter when I've said like yeah, so you're sorry
She said ask for forgiveness too
I
Haven't tried that one out, but she seems to seem to think that that is another and you when she says things
I listen to her she's yeah, I have a smart I think we talked about that. I think it might have been Sarah Armstrong
Oh wait, she said that long time ago
All along
Okay, yeah, you see we talked about this before and there's my take on now
Say it again
I'm not 100% on that one
Like ask for forgiveness this is why yeah, yeah, I will
Because it's this if someone I dig it as far as like doing it it feels like it does feel like like a humble kind of approach
But it can be taken like this so I would take it
And I don't think I'd be wrong. Let's do the time where when it's like
Okay, I'm I'm sorry, you know, I'm I messed up. It's all me whatever right so it's almost like you throw the ball in their court
To be the bad guy
It's kind of like so it's almost like a guaranteed way to get forgiven. That's what it is and it's kind of like I know that
So it's like this is me strong-larming forgiveness from you. It's like shaming you in their forgiveness
So you're saying if you're like if I say hey, I'm really sorry about this
Do you forgive me yeah
I gotta say yes
I'm
Posing on posing strong-larming
It's it's it's it gets in feed. I'm sure Sarah will give us some feedback. Yeah. It's subtle, but um
And I'm saying really they it's more prevalent. I don't think of ever asked for a person's forgiveness
I've said the I've said so you know, sorry apologize for all kinds of stupid things that have done
But I don't think I've ever asked for forgiveness
Maybe if this was something really big
Yeah, but even then man. Yeah, that's a tough one. I am sure she has a little great reason behind it
Well, I have to get further
Explanations yeah
I thought of that because I considered like saying that in some minor
Situation whatever and then I'm like wait
In minor situations it's too much. Yeah, like you know, I call I show to play man
I'm sorry will you forgive me like no
Like that's this is a little too much. It's like saying
Hey, I know I you know, I know I made you bad or something like that
I know I made you mad and I'm sorry you know whatever are you still mad?
It's kind of like that because if you say yeah, I'm still mad. It's kind of like
Right hey, I said my piece you chose not to be met or you chose to continue to be mad
That's your problem kind of thing. It's like do you please forgive me please forgive me like what kind of a
Dick doesn't forgive someone you know
It's kind of like that and then they're bringing that so it's like a little strong. Okay, I said we'll get feedback
It's an interesting we'll get feedback from Sarah. I'm sure it's interesting
To think that there's people out there and you know that out there that I hate don't apologize
It's decided we could just yeah, just just being dumb
Yeah, I don't do it
Yeah, here's here's the advice for today. Don't be dumb. Yeah, it's kind of goes the the
The apologizing and taking extreme more ownership
I say not similar. I think there's a pickover left there. Oh
This huge I didn't say they were not similar. Oh, no, no, not that not the same thing. Sorry
Yeah, they're not they're not the same thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, it's like um we'll back to the thing when you're like yeah, if you don't apologize that's weaker
Whatever that's kind of like the guy who says like hey
This is how I am taking it or leave it kind of thing like if they're you know like those people
Yeah, I mean if they're a dick you know or something like that and they'll like take it or leave it
Some people love me some people hate me. It's kind of thing and brother. I don't bother you that people hate you because of how you are
You know kind of thing. It's gonna be cater. Yeah, you know
So it's kind of weird. I mean yeah, I take it. You know be you for sure, but um I think that's something. It's not nothing if people hate you
Do one more question
As a person in a leadership position
What should I do if I consistently notice one of my guys motivating the team and leading them successfully
During Projects and missions better than I can
The completion of the mission being the top priority would it be better for me to back down and let my counterpart lead
Which will benefit the company and its employees
And how will I regain my status among them?
I think this is actually pretty straightforward if you've got someone that's doing a better job leading then
Let him lead let him lead give him some room learn from them support them the best you can and the best way you can most likely support them is by getting out of the way
And letting them do what they're doing and then get them the support that they need and what this is going to give you
The benefit of is now you can instead of looking
Down and in and managing your team you can look up and out and forward and see what is going on in the future and
Prep the battlefield and in the future or prep the next market area or look for recruiting or you can move you can lead you can actually lead
And
Let that you know
Young buck handle the things that are going on tack pre gone about for right now
You just say this to the to the seal leadership. I used to say hey the enlisted seal leaders handle the problem that is in their face right now
The tackle problems in their face right now the officer should be looking at what we're going to do next
That's kind of an e really simple. It's not always like that, but that's a real good starting point
And so in this position, I'd be like oh I got a young buck that's coming up and leading well cool
That's going to allow me allow me
to look up and out and be ready to move forward and
Plan the next move now as far as regaining your status as leader you won't really need to
Because
If you do this properly you'll be seen as a leader who is confident enough to let a subordinate leader step up and lead while I go and move forward
The we you'd have to regain if you were there shutting this person down and trying to micro manage and doing a worst job
Then everyone on the team knows that that guy could do a good job
Hmm, let him do it
That's about confidence really it's about like do you have are you confident and are you secure in your leadership?
Oh, yeah to step aside
Love it hey you're really good at this cool you stepping there and do it. I don't know problem
Well you get the occasional person that's like oh
Look, Jocelyn's joc was that that guy do it because he doesn't know what he's doing
Okay, so yeah one out of 20 people will be that big Mr. negative. That's fine. Yeah, you know
Then then what's cool is when you're on the outside guess what you are when you're when you let someone else run the team guess what you have
Guess what you have?
Yes, oh I go Charles
Yes, you have detachment and so now you're gonna be able to see things that even that
Bleed or that's better than you can't see and then when you come in you're gonna look like the tactical genius because you point something out
But they didn't notice because they were in the firefight
That's a good genius
Works things get it. Yeah, that's hard to do that man. What's going to do in better than you?
You know, oh man. Yeah, that's right. I mean the O high state tape what takes confidence
What you said this is that's such a good example of
Keeping your ego in check because what you just said everything feels that and when you feel that that's when you got all cool
My ego is getting out of control. It's fine. Just put it in check and let this person bleed and I'll move
You know check out what we're gonna do next. I'll look ahead on the battlefield
Should I I'm trying to think like huh, oh you said they're occasionally there'll be a guy
It would be like oh he doesn't always doing so he's letting do all right
I've been in that situation where my boss actually I've been the guy who
My supervisor like said oh yeah, you like you handle you take this, you know you got this one kind of thing
And I'm like yeah, you're doing it because you don't know what you're doing kind of thing and everyone knew that
And so I've been in that situation where I'm looking at them, but now think about this
Think about if instead of him just saying hey you go on run this thing think if we were to say hey echo
You're really good at this you're better than I am you step up run this
I'll be over here looking where we're next. What would you think then yeah?
So he's actually said that before like a couple times and every single time it made me if you way better like
Even the I mean of course the truth will set you free. Yeah, so I feel like if I was one of the
Don't like you don't want one of the team guys on the teams thinking that I think I wouldn't think that if yeah
If he did that kind of stuff and the or if or if as long as he didn't act like
This is the counter to the heart of leadership the count this whole executive you think that if you hide it
Yeah, it's better and the better thing to do is be like hey echo is really good at this
He's better than I am and he's gonna step up around this thing and people are like oh
I'll chuck a super confident leadership they don't they don't verbalize in their head that but they let's just the feeling that
That juxtapes talk about his and caroos run in this thing. He's just yeah, we're good
Good man. Yeah, so watch out for that. Remember though. Just keep your ego check. Yes, sir at all times
All right
Let's have a podcast that's less than nineteen hours long
so
How can you maybe give us a hand with helping be prepared and
Getting better in our lives. True Charles go. You have a deal no problem. Okay, so we're working out. We're all working out
Yes, 100% right every day. Are we working out every day? So you don't have to not necessarily have to but a lot will say I recommend it
Yeah, we're not working out in the cruising for a month. So we're all working out look we're gonna supplement our stuff
Jockel does have supplements now that was kind of the plan
The plan has come to fruition
That's the word right fruition. It is yeah, so I'm used it correctly. Yeah, see all right there you go
So cruel oil right that's the the main one for our joints actually it's good for your eyes in brain too
by the way so
Worried I'm not saying don't worry about your eyesight anymore after you take this. I'm saying you can worry less
Tell you that that's good. So yeah, Jockel super cruel is what it's called and joint warfare that one's obviously for the joint
Specifically, but I'm sure that's all kind of the bad of it. I've noticed my I have an injured arm
Healing up
quickly. Yeah, like not like noticeably each day and I have to attribute because I've had this similar injuries before right it's an arm lock right
Yeah, and as bad as this one was yeah little noises
It is noticeably I'm attributing that to joint warfare. Yeah, and Dean told the other day
Dean told me exactly like like his version of what happened and I know that I know that move
That shows and like even when he shows it on me yeah, Dean's one of these guys where I think sometimes he doesn't know his own control
And what he's doing is super effective by the way. It's like it's a Kimura. That's what he's doing. It's like the one the what he did to me was a straight arm lock
Yeah, so that's what it ends up being just so everyone knows how to make this real clear
This was an accident
Dean was actually showing a move. He wasn't even we weren't rolling it wasn't live
He was showing a move and
He's shown 10,000 moves with me as the dummy and I'm showing many many moves on Dean with Dean is the dummy
And he got this position. I had just arrived
And I don't know if that makes it worse or not, but I was definitely what's called you know
So I was cold and
No warm up and he was showing a move. So he's just I want to show this thing
I think he's like you know, Jock was got a good defense here, so you gotta be ready if the guy does this
And then he's like as he was saying that I think he thought I was going to attempt this movement and I didn't and he just
He just and he'd meet in the arm
So is that pretty much how he de-reefed it to you?
Uh, yeah, but the thing the reason I understood it because more second-
Yes guy, you know, he feels bad no, and you know, I mean it's it's a bummer
Yeah, but I know I know for a fact
He didn't mean to do it. Whatever. Yeah, it's one of it's basically how he explained it and he's done this
Like I said as me as the dummy
And it hurts by the way, you know, it's like money. He goes he goes I didn't realize you weren't that flexible
I go bro. It's my elbow
It's no flexibility in it elbow
Well, it must have been a miscommunication just like I said because this is what it was
It's like okay when you go out for the camera from across sight
And the guy streams is arm you want to get his arm behind his back bend his arm basically in behind his back
That's what he said and that's the move he's had shown to me before and it's one of his things his tricks
And he he said that like when he did it
He's just like a miscommunity, you know like if you and if you do it it's kind of like you're just
It's just leverage to bend your arm behind your back, but
Dang and it wasn't your shoulder them jam no no no and I'm thankful about that
shoulder injuries are worse than elbow elbows like they heal you know and even this one I can do like I'm
It'll be fine. Yeah, no factor. Yeah, you got the joint warfare. Yeah, I tribute the quick healing
To join warfare. Krilowail which I always take but don't warfare. Yeah, and this and these are one of those ones that is kind of like man
I wish I would it it would have saved me a lot of pain in the past now, you know like if you're joined
So just holding them. Yeah, it's more of a big deal. It's good and it's like I said I mean I had my shoulder
Where I couldn't do muscle ups for like six months and then when we came out with the first like experimental
No like the second experimental
joint warfare and I was on it was like
All of a sudden I was doing muscle ups again. Yeah, which is that's awesome, right? That's awesome
Doing muscle ups period is awesome because I haven't been staying muscle ups. I haven't done muscle ups for decades really
I don't think of every time I'm a muscle up before in four decades. I think I've tried to do muscle up
Probably like three times we'll go. We'll do some muscle ups. Yeah, teach me the technique. It's just technique well
There's technique you're just a little bit of strength obviously, yeah, but if you know the false grip
Which is this main the main technique that needs to be learned keep it in tight to your chest
Pull it to your sternum boom
Throw your chest forward in your there. All right cool. Just do skill
muscle up, but yeah, if you want this
Don't work for and jocco superkril. It is at origin main.com
Main like the state origin main.com also an origin main is where you can get your geese
But before the geese and this is new so I can't this new supplement called the discipline
pre mission pre workout pre
Life activity pre life supplement
That's a good on cognitive enhancements in there as well as physical
Pre mission yeah, you're gonna need your brain and your body yeah boom for the mission boom
That's the one to take yeah get down. No, it's good by the way tastes good too. Surprisingly jocco actually made it tastes good
Yeah, well because the big thing you got to watch out for is you know we don't want to spike our insulin level with sugar
Yeah, but we have monk fruit
which is the sweetener and and
monk fruit taste good
Delish and and it also has a slim sum of positive impact on your physiology as well. So double two
We say there we say two birds one stone
That's what we say
on yeah
Those days good. Yeah, let me find flavor. Yeah, there you go get down
But yeah that one do origin main.com
Real good also an origin main like I was gonna say is geese for all the people who have been asked in Dave Burke today called me today
About geese like what up with the geese
I mean my gear and all this stuff you've been doing no wait was even question
He was actually asking more oh, yeah, he did he was like what geese should I get but then I was like
Well, okay, okay
No, no, I know that
My size is because the chef's paper the traditional geese sizes just like a 1803 boom
You get it boom. This one is kind of it's more suited for you. Yeah, yeah, he's a skinny
I got a picture I got a post this picture. I got a picture of Dave Burke and me the commander
Is oh I'm the commander of TU bruiser. He's the commander of lightning six his
Anglico team and I got a picture of us in Ramadi together on a rooftop and we're both asleep
I don't even know what it was taken, but it's pretty awesome and it shows you like
Like you know what's your awesome is like we're both asleep we both have all of our gear on sitting
And so I don't a rooftop asleep. So what is that like you just gonna get a catcher
Sleep when you can yeah, let me just catch this quick. Yeah, probably
We my guess is we had moved into a position we'd stay there
We could a clearance was going on the clearance was done and now we were kind of in a
Stand-by situation and we're just like now we get a chance sleep because before we'd go in the field
You'd be a wake for basically like
24 hours and then you go in the field
Matter of fact sometimes it's like when you got in the field is when you got your first sleep like after you get in the field
And then you get your four hour or whatever three hours someone you know you get your head down and you get some sleep finally
And so there's me in Dave Burke
Racked out
Oh, and it's not like you're like how you should three for us. I always
Especially after hearing you guys talk it's like man. It's not like you're coming home from a hard day
Work and you know now you're you've clocked out and now you have some time to
Settle down watch the news and go sleep for the night. It's not like that
You know, you're gonna catch some yeah, you're gonna catch you where you can so dang yeah
Yeah, it's crazy
So it's not that you guys are just falling asleep on the job
What that means is we were probably on the tail end of a
Operation that we had conducted and we were now like in a stand-down mode and
Maybe we're probably getting ready to move to another
You know another quadrant another sector and we were just catching some rack-offs
But it's an awesome. It's an awesome picture. It tells you how like tired
You know what we're both sitting in chairs all over gear on holding our guns and we're asleep both of us
Nonetheless Dave Burkier called me nonetheless that story doesn't matter you want to get a key
You still looking to get a key you want to get another key
Get it from origin may not come made in America
100% made in America. I'm a seed of the cotton
That's it you do the cotton all the way up to the gear you wearing people like when you say cotton
Sure, and they like when you say important important yeah, yeah in mountain
Because you got about mountain yeah, but because you and I feel weird if I say mountain yeah mountain or important
It's like I'm not important
For me that's just like I'm on the
Yeah, yeah, yeah
Yeah, no I day it doesn't sound weird when you do it is on the fuels weird
Nonetheless yeah, or do me in dot com that's the go there. Yeah, they have a lot of cool stuff and it's all made in America
That's a good part. So I'm made in America
Also four workouts stuff kettlebells
Battle ropes maces you're switching over your work. Are you doing creative stuff boom on it on the dot com slash jacco
That's where you go the kettlebells the artistic one primal bells demon bells not demon bells zombie bells is what they're called
and
Primal bells wait prim bells
Legend yeah, planted a pig from those the coins. I bought my daughter one
a few months ago, whether
She gets after nonetheless. That's where you get a lot of cool stuff on there. A lot of good info as well on it dot com slash jacco
That's the one also when you're buying the books that we occasionally
And occasionally mean very often review on this podcast go to jacco.pot next dot com the the page
Little top menu there click on books from podcast click through that. It's good. We're super
That's where you buy we have more organized for you. So you know you don't get lost or whatever
Listed by episode
Click through there get a Amazon Amazon Prime next day delivery best way to do it my opinion
Also
Subscribe to the podcast if you have not already on iTunes
Google play
Stitcher
Spotify wait can you subscribe on spot. I think you can I don't know I don't know either
I'm not a Spotify but
If you are on Spotify and you can subscribe
Subscribe also on YouTube
Video version of this podcast also
excerpts from this podcast
The benefits of excerpts. I think are kind of self explanatory and I've explained them plenty times so I'm not gonna do it this time
But yeah, you can take a little less sense individually so you don't have to listen to little podcasts
Unless subscribe good way to
Support also talk as a store. It's called jocco store
Jocco store.com
This is where you can get the shirts discipline equals freedom a
shirt with jocco's head on it with a word good
Written backwards. I'm not gonna say why it's written backwards, but it is written backwards on purpose
Because people have been emailing you and by the way if you see a shirt with the
Good written forward. It's a fake shirt. It's a knockoff. It's what's called a counterfeit knockoff
Bad actually
Somebody posted a picture of I think I forget what it's it's a jocco some is one of those you know those
So there's like companies yeah
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, they go you know they form stores on Amazon
And then you see little something like my
Pompark or anything and though they they print sure is they're like low quality
I saw one that said you would never put that quote on there. I don't think you would
It seems like something you would put
You know the guy look cool in it and I dig it but good not intention good intention for sure 100%
And I'm signing on in that way, but I think again, it's a situation where these
Compat I'm assuming it's a company. I'm sure it's not just one dude, but it's companies they get trendy stuff and they just
Yeah offer them for print and on
Amazon or wherever and that's different yeah, that's what they call counterfeit knockoff
Jocco is the jocco story and then you're definitely supporting the podcast. Yeah talk story.com
That's it and there's some origin stuff like a back in origin main they got the garage guard. Yeah, you know
So origin stuff 100% in the game, you know podcast legit other than that it's good
It's gonna be kind of hard to find oh no the T jocco white T jocco white T
Supporting the podcast. Yeah, but anything else is gonna be knockoffs and you know kind of find that everyone's in a while
There'd be where if you care if you care I dig it because to me if if someone was wearing it's a jocco thing
You would understand they're like hey good evening or something like that I'd be done. I'd be my new friend
To me yeah, so I dig it 100% either way, but I think that's more just info, you know
For your information. Yes
It's one way back to jocco story. There's this winning stuff on there. This political swim T shirts. Putty's hats
I don't like a beaties. I didn't finish the beanies. Yeah, but I'm eating on Monday. You know that no winners
Almost over. Yeah, you know it's one of those things. You know, okay just check we're trying. We're over here making sure you are away of the seasons
Did the same every year? Maybe I'll do like a spring beating. Yeah, you know
Some rash girl especially right now since it's negative 40 degrees and new England and Minnesota
No alcohol or freezing Chicago mission. Yeah, no man
Sorry, guys. I know that they're coming though. It's all good
Um also rash guards. There's a new rash guard
Sodium one essence of jiu-jitsu small oxygen big reaction, you know and that got pointed out to me after I started wearing it by the way
So someone applied a layer a layer. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah black belt. He was killing Taylor who did it
And he was like oh was your rash guards say it says it's a small oxygen big reaction and he goes the essence of jiu-jitsu
It is you know like the whole leverage and efficiency thing. I was like dang bill you
You're deep speaking of judo killing judo killing yeah, yeah, he black belt jiu-jitsu player. Yeah
Jit nonetheless new rash guard out
It's cool the where he could rash guards are out and
Insurculation in the wild
Face time no wild not in the wild but I've seen them yeah, yeah, first truly. Yes, actually
Yeah, the side cyber the cyber space wild. Yes picture the cyber level. Yeah, that's cool when people did that send you the pictures
But yeah, nonetheless yeah jockel store dot com. That's a good one also
Psychological warfare of course if you didn't know what that is I'm gonna tell you it's an album with tracks
Jockel trash and this is what it's for if you didn't know I'm gonna explain it this was for on your path to
I'm gonna make it like concise. Okay. Here's a good way to say on your path to greatness
It's a
Weapon against weakness
It's kind of concise. I'm so working on it. I just made it up just now concise yet cheesy somehow
Yeah, yeah, half to greatness that's so cheesy. Don't say it again, bro
Yeah, see see this dude what do you call the creative process? Yeah, this is like no, that was just cheesy
There's no yeah live on the podcast. It's the worst worse deal. All right. Well, hey look on your path how about that on the path
You're on the path on the path we're working out we're working out we're getting up early some of this most of us some of us
You know, early
Sticking with the the dietary guidelines that in keep us in the game
Hopefully we better be nonetheless
Everyone everyone's in while you'll hit that little road block little speed bump
Not road block speed bump moment of weakness all it is is a distraction like can when you get hungry
You're on a fast or you're on you know like a really solid diet and maybe it's new or something
You're thinking long-term
Hopefully you're thinking long-term long-term when my diet's gonna bring me my workout my whole thing is gonna bring me to this long-term goal
Right you keep your eyes on that goal. You're gonna stand the path you get distracted by the fact that you're hungry
at one moment the fact that this thing right here
Don't not whatever taste good you're distracted by that if you keep your eyes on the long-term goal
You won't be distracted that doesn't mean anything. I know I'm hungry right now so what's we hungry right now? I can eat yeah
Of course don't let's taste good. They always taste good has nothing to do
It's not that do with this path
That's why these are distractions this psychological warfare is it's like a little helper
To keep you from being distracted and it's jocos telling us
Why we should not be distracted. All right. Thank you. That was psychological warfare. We're still helping fun
I do
It is that's exactly what it is. That's the best way to explain it. You just explain it thoroughly
I feel like you don't you know why you don't understand the value because you don't listen to it
Yeah, I do
No because you've never yeah like the like you having to use it. I think it's like the kind oh you're just good at thinking
There's no it's kind of it's just part of the game, you know for us
You're like have listen to it, but I don't like you to lies down the regular
Yeah, you try you to lie something and get that little wind with it
You're gonna be like okay this thing works this thing is legit just like you just to it's an album on iTunes Amazon music
Google play that type of stuff. That's where you can get it speaking of Amazon also on Amazon you can get
Something called jocco white tea which might sound like it's simple drink
You know you put water you put some tea in the water what you don't know is that once you drink the tea
You now have a guaranteed deadlift of 8000 pounds
So drink jocco white tea and deadlift more we got some books way the warrior kid
jujitsu
Studying reading
Working out it's for kids, but adults can get something out of it too somebody posted a
Straight up rocky training montage, but it was like a eight year old kid getting after it
And it was all he's like sitting intensely reading warrior kid and then he's hitting mitts and he's
Intensely reading warrior kid and then he's doing pushups
So yeah, you can get that book
Way the warrior kid the next warrior kid book is coming out April 28th
I'll tell y'all when it comes out and is available for pre-order
What's the name? Can you tell us the name is the name is the name is way the warrior kid
Mark's mission
Yeah, Mark Mark learned some new lessons
I'll read some excerpts from it on the podcast in the coming months just you know some little
Tastes of Mark's mission extreme ownership of course
That is the book that wrote in my brother, Dave Babin
Combat leadership for business in life
How to take ownership which I talked a little bit about today
Just when he goes freedom the field manual
How to get after it
Mentally physically
Get some if you want the audio version of that it is not unautable it is on
MP3 iTunes Amazon music Google play another MP3 platforms
Eshalon fun is our leadership consulting company
I had a guy
Talking to a potential client company was like hey can you help us
Establish a cultural leadership inside of our company
I'm like that is what that's what we do so if you need help with leadership at your company
Reach out to us. It's me. It's Dave Babin JP to know Dave Burke
emails info at echelon front.com or you can go to our website echelon front.com
If you want a keynote speech you don't need to go to a speakers bureau
You can just contact us at echelon front.com
That's the more efficient effective way to make it happen on top of that we have the monster
We talked about it a little bit today
Sure the the monster is a
Leadership
Symposium
Where we talk about leadership. We train leadership pragmatically
Tools
You will be you will this is pretty cool you will be a better leader when you come out of the monster you will be
100% I don't know if you'll be a hundred percent better of leader you will have a hundred percent chance
or a hundred percent chance of becoming a better leader how much I am not a hundred percent sure on that figure
But you will definitely be a better leader and when we got done I think I've talked about this before but we got done in Austin
And we are at GJ2
Well, you're teaching GJ2 and I was like this is such a good deal
To get the information that comes at the monster to
Have that opportunity to learn these lessons from the battlefield that you can then take and apply to your business and your life
And on top of that like the icing on the cake is is going to GJ2 and getting an introduction to that so
The monster it's been awesome. It's been awesome to see how it's affected
People afterwards that have changed their lives from coming to the monster. So it's awesome
Coming get some at the monster it is this year we're only doing two
One is going to be in Washington, DC
May 17th and 18th then there's going to be San Francisco October 17th and 18th
We have had four of these events
Up until now they all sold out these will sell out
So if you want to go a lot of times when people when companies
Companies have bureaucracies inside of them
And so they're trying to get the approval for the you know, hey, we need eight tickets and they're trying to run that through the chain of command to get the funding for the eight tickets and blah blah blah
And we've had companies that have started that process too late and then we sell out and we're sitting here saying hey
Sorry the next monsters in six months you can come then you know what I mean so
Get busy now takes wild get through your bureaucratic system at your company to get your team sent to the monster
We'll see you there extreme ownership.com is how you can register
And if you want to contact
Maybe me maybe echo if you want to share something with us
You have some kind of question you have some kind of an answer you have some kind of a comment you want to make where actually available
on the interwebs
on Twitter
on Instagram and
on
other one it's called the Facebook people hot echo is at echo Charles and i am at jocca willink and finally thank you for listening to the show
Thank you for supporting the show. Thank you for spreading the word
And for those of you that serve
Thanks for your service those of you that protect
Thanks for your protection and for those that have fallen
Those that we never got to say goodbye to
Those that we never got to thank
to all of you
Thank you
And goodbye
Until next time this is echo and jocco out